# NYC-Motor-Vehicle-Collision-Statistics
A Python manipulation of NYC Motor Vehicle Collision's open data

Road safety is undeniably an important risk factor to consider before getting behind the wheel. Safety awareness provides people the knowledge which can influence their decision-making process. For prevention to occur, awareness can be considered a necessary step. Open data regarding vehicle collision locations for instance, can be distributed to drivers. With this information available, the public can confidently answer any possible safety questions. Drivers are now able to determine the best course of routes considering collision accident locations based on time, and certain dates of the month/ year. In addition, reported injuries/ death are also available including the vehicles involved. Contributing factors such as alcohol involvement provides drivers information regarding possible trends within an area. This information educates drivers to take precautions when entering or avoiding these areas. 
          New York City is an appropriate location to analyze considering the enormous urban population. Since the best alternative methods to get around is by walking or public transportation, due to compacted areas, driving is often not a recommendation. With this data, we can determine the best routes available for travel. While travel may be convenient for residents working in the transportation industry such as the yellow cab service, uber, Lyft, access-a-ride and MTA, driving condition has become difficult considering various traffic rules. This data also allows us to discover biking conditions in comparison with vehicle collisions. 
       Vehicle collision remains a vital cause of death in society due to human error despite traffic enforcement. Human error involving vehicle collisions will continue to occur during unclear events. In our project, we can utilize this data to reveal safety measures by displaying accident prone locations including specific times of the year, and other technical considerations which will impact the decision-making process for drivers. 

Data: https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Public-Safety/Motor-Vehicle-Collisions-Crashes/h9gi-nx95
